- [Instructor] Let's continue our exploration
of Spring Boot Actuator by learning
about some practical use cases
that you're likely to encounter in your work
as a spring developer.
Customized actuator behaviors are available
by extending the Spring Boot Actuate package classes
and also by taking advantage
of the built-in framework capabilities.
In this lesson, we're going to do three things.
We're going to build a custom health component.
We're going to show you how to modify
your runtime logger configurations in real time at runtime.
And we're going to show you how to create
custom application info for additional metrics
on the actuator reporting.
Let's go to our demo application
and start with that custom health component.
Actually let us start by looking
at the runtime actuator metrics
that we're seeing right now with our demo application.
So we've got a demo API application.
It's in a running state and it is configured
to show us this health information.
Reminder, we're getting there by going
to the actuator directory,
clicking on health and seeing this information.
So we've got at the top of roll up of our application health
and then spring has automatically configured for us
these three individual components
that it is reporting to us detailed metrics on.
Just a quick reminder,
we're seeing those because of these two specific properties
in the application properties file.
The health show details property
and the endpoint health show components properties.
Without those, all we would see here on the health metric
is the overall status of our application,
which is a composite of the three component statuses.
All right, so without further ado,
let's build a custom component.
So we're going to build another entry
here in this component list.
We're going to build a custom health component.
Now let's walk through what it takes to do this.
The first thing we need to do is create a class
that implements the org.springframework
boot actuate health indicator interface,
like so.
And then we need to register this class
as a spring component.
That's going to allow spring to scan it
and hook it into the actuator framework.
Now having done that, we need to override
this important health method,
which is specified in this interface.
And this health method wants us to return a health object.
Let's put in our override annotation here to be clear
about what we're doing.
Okay, so this health method here is the one
that's going to send back the interesting data
that we're going to surface over here in our actuator table.
All right, notice here that we need to return
a health object from this health override
that also is in the Spring Boot Actuate package
and the basics here, what we need to do,
we can just kind of show you quickly.
We're going to return a health object.
Let's give it a status of up.
Let's send it with details,
which will allow us to see
all of this interesting stuff in here.
And with detail method, wants a message key
and wants a message up.
And then finally, we're going to send it to the builder.
And now when this health object is built,
spring framework will know what to do with it
and know how to display our information here.
So what we've done here is the basics.
Let's add some logic to simulate something interesting.
Let's do something fun
and we're calling this a weekend health metric.
So if it's the weekend, this is just kind of a play example.
If it's the weekend, we're going to return a health status
of let's call it out of service just for fun.
Let's give it a message key, and let's say yes.
And let's say build it and return it.
All right, so our message key,
we have, what am I missing here?
Out of service,
oh, need dot
and with detail here.
That'll fix it up.
Okay, so what's happening here is,
the message key here is playtime.
So we're going to report to spring boot actuator,
whether it's play time or not.
If it's the weekend, we're going to return
an out of service status for our application
and we're going to say play time is yes.
When it's not the weekend,
we're going to return that the status is up
and it's not play time.
And we just have a utility method here
giving us a silly isWeekend boolean.
So let's see, we've configured our class.
We've hooked it into spring.
And I believe that is all we need to do.
Application properties are set up with details.
Let's launch this and see what we have.
Relaunching it, step and rerun.
Application has started successfully.
Now we're just going to reload this health page.
And if I did this right,
there is our weekend health status.
Our status is out of service
because I am actually recording this on the weekend
and it is play time.
These are the details of our new component.
Now this is what is interesting here.
The status of out of service has rolled up
to be the overall status of the application.
Let me show you how we pulled that off.
Over here in application properties,
there's a health status ordering in which we can identify
which statuses should roll up
to the top level overall application status.
We've indicated that we want out of service
to be first in line.
And so we have an out of service and that's what bubbles up.
By default, you don't have to specify this.
By default, it will respond to downs and ups,
downs bubble up as the overall status.
So there we have successfully achieved
a custom health component
reporting on the weekend health of the runtime.
All right, I'd like to go through a couple more things.
Another thing you can do with actuator is extend
the application information.
Right now, we're not showing anything useful here
on that application information metric.
This one is so easy.
All you need to do in application properties
is put in an info property.
Let's do a couple of them,
info weekend activity equals learn about spring.
That's just silly for an example,
but something much more useful is to put
application properties like a version number.
And here's a trick you need to know.
You can dynamically get your application version in here
in a number of different ways.
We're just going to take advantage
of what we can do with our pom.xml.
And we can point to some of these attributes
here in the XML file and surface them right to the endpoint.
So specifically, we can point to the project version
and the project name there in our application properties
using the special at syntax.
So project version,
app names, same way we can do that.
What was it called name there?
Okay, so those two things will get pulled from pom.xml
and how to get those dynamically into this pom.xml
is outside the scope of this lesson.
But let me just show you that it works.
We're going to relaunch.
Let's go back to our endpoint again.
Now we see the debug messages right here in the console.
So that's how you can dynamically change
your logging configurations.
Now, when you restart this application,
it will all go back to its default,
but this is a good way in a production
or even in a testing situation
to quickly change that logging configuration by logger.
And that concludes this lesson,
learning some detailed use cases
of how to use actuator in your situation,
how to customize it.
The sky is the limit
with access to the entire Spring Boot Actuator library
that you can extend and customize to your heart's desire.
The sky is really the limit
as to what you can influence here
in your actuator output metrics.